Elementary particles don’t "age" like normal macroscopic objects such as biological cells, cars, humans and stars. The latter are all complicated composite objects, and the probability of them disintegrating typically gets higher the longer they have existed or the more they have been effected by their environment. One can in principle by observation tell if one car is closer to the end of its existence than another, also in the case when they appeared to be identical at the time of their production. This feature is closely connected to the fact that one can separate one object from another (even two brand new cars can be distinguished after close inspection). 

Two elementary particles of the same type on the other hand, are identical and non-separable in a more fundamental sense. There is for instance no way one even in principle can tell if one particle is older than another. If one could, the particles would have to have some internal structure that kept track of its age (like the bumps on a car). One could of course argue that there might be such internal structure which we just haven’t found yet. However, a natural consequence of truly simple and non-separable particles is exponential
lifetime. It can be explained as follows:

If there is no way to even in principle tell if a particle is older than an other, there can be no slow change or disintegration, and therefore a particle that was created one second ago will have exactly the same chance of decaying within the next second as a particle that was created one hour, one year or one nanosecond ago. Thus, the probability to decay within the next time interval dt is independent of when that time interval begins with respect to the time of creation of the particle.  

Now, let the probability density distribution dp/dt signify the differential probability for a particle to decay after a time t when starting to observe it at t=0. If dp/dt for t=0 is equal to a value ?, it means that the probability for it to decay during a time interval dt (which is short enough for dp/dt to be constant over that interval) is given by ?dt. 

Let’s now divide the time interval t into N equal parts: t0=0, t1, t2, … tN=t. Hence, dt=t/N. The probability that the particle will survive from t=0 and for a time interval dt until t1 is then 1-?dt = 1-?t/N (the particle must either decay during the interval or survive until t1). If we now make use of the fact that it doesn’t matter when you start to observe the particle we conclude the probability that it will survive for two time intervals until t2=t1+dt must be the product of the probability that it will survive the first interval and the probability that it will survive for the second one (1-?t/N) 2
. If we repeat the argument N times the probability for the particle to have survived until t (=tN) is (1-?t/N) N. Letting N go towards infinity and dt towards 0, this expression approaches the value e-?t(remember that this is the probability for the particle to survive until t).

So, if we start observing a particle at t=0 the probability that it will decay before a time t is 1-e-?t. This must then be equal to the integrated differential probability ?(dp/dt)dt where the integration goes from 0 to t. Thus, dp/dt =?e-?t. The constant ? is usually written as 1/t, where t is the mean value of the continuous distribution dp/dt=e-t/t/t. One sees that dp/dt indeed is equal to ? at t=0. Check also that the integral of dp/dt over all t gives unit probability.